[Download the Spreadsheet Game Here!](https://joelambrecht.github.io/projects/DealorNoDeal/DealorNoDeal.xlsm)

This is a spreadsheet that imitates the game show 'Deal or No Deal' which I created during some time off during the summer of 2021. In 'Deal or No Deal', the contestant has to choose a case, then slowly open other cases in each round to gain more information about the potential value of their own case. Along the way, the Bank offers the contestant varying cash sums to stop playing. The contestant can accept the offer, or reject at each round and discover how much money is in their own case.

I found the premise of this show really interesting, and was curious how my friends and family would play given the opportunity. So I began programming the game into an Excel spreadsheet, and managed to produce a rather similar imitation of the game show.

This project helped me to grow as a data analyst and programmer. I gained experience programming in Visual Basic when writing macro scripts, improved my skills in making intuitive Excel spreadsheets, and used this project as a talking point for economic discussions on the Monty Hall problem and consumer behavior. It relates to my capstone experiences because it prepared me to think from the perspective of the user, no matter what stage of the application I was working on. For example, I ran into an issue where my random values would recalculate anytime a button was pressed. The easy solution would be to opent he excel spreadsheet settings and disable automatic calculation. However, this would require users to both be familiar with Excel settings, and not have other spreadsheets that require automatic calculation (As I learned, unsuprisingly, most spreadsheets do). Instead I removed randomization functions from the excel spreadsheet and built them into macro scripts instead, such that the necesary cells would only calculate random values when the macro was called. The process of thinking from the user's perspective has been very useful when designing a database capable of handling requests from both the desktop applcation and website application teams. It has allowed me to predict features and start implementation before it became a stumbling block for the other teams.

In order to play this game, simply download the spreadsheet, make sure macros are enabled, and enjoy!
